Hi.
I'm Jeanie Tse, and I'm here to talk to you
about schizophrenia and the brain.
So there are a couple of things that we see
in brain development for people with schizophrenia.
One area we have learned some things about
is the neurotransmitters, or the chemicals
in the brain that are involved in schizophrenia.
A lot research tends to be focused on dopamine
and acetylcholine.
So, dopamine was initially a focus of research
because earlier anti-psychotic medications
were all dopamine blockers.
And so, we knew that if you blocked dopamine
in the brain some of the positive symptoms,
like delusions or hallucinations, would subside
or go away.
And so, we know that that's implicated.
Acetylcholine seems to be involved in interacting
with the dopamine, but also independently
in some of the symptoms of schizophrenia.
We're doing a lot of research, too, on the
structure of the brain in schizophrenia.
What we know is that the cortex of the brain,
or the grey matter in the brain, is thinner
in people with schizophrenia, and that there
seems to be a lower volume of brain tissue,
and decreases in brain volume over time.
And things that contribute to those brain
decreases in volume include both the number
of relapses that somebody might have on schizophrenia,
so the amount of times that they get sick,
but also the medications that we use to treat
schizophrenia may decrease brain volume.
So, it's a bit of a catch-22.
And our science is so crude that we don't
necessarily know what these decreases in volume
represent.
However, we know that both the disease and
it's treatment may decrease volumes, which
is bad news.
Lots more research needs to be done about
this.
There's been some research, too, as to the
relationship between head injury and schizophrenia.
This is still largely inconclusive.
We don't know for sure that if you've had
a head injury you're going to be more likely
to develop schizophrenia, or that effects
your prognosis.
But we know that head injury has many effects
on thinking and mood and behavior.